
# CSwitch roadmap

## Project goals

CSwitch is a routing engine allowing to create scalable secure networks with
built in billing for communication transfer. The security of billing relies on
trust between people in the real world.

Main features:

- Nodes pay for sending data, and nodes participating in the infrastructure can
    earn credits by forwarding messages.

- The address of any node on the network is his public key. This implies that
    nodes have constant addresses, generated by the nodes themselves.

- Routing is federated. To obtain a route between two nodes in the network, a
    node can request a route from a routing service, for a fee. Any user may
    open a new routing service.

- CSwitch allows fast and secure transfer of funds between nodes. All nodes
    begin from a balance of 0 credits. This balance can decrease and increase
    according to trust configuration. This configuration relates to trust
    between people in the real world.


## Software license

CSwitch will be released under the GNU GPLv3 license.


## Components to develop

Inside CSwitch:

- [Fragmentos](https://github.com/realcr/fragmentoshttps://github.com/realcr/fragmentos):
    A mechanism for sending large UDP datagrams without having the performance
    penality that happens due to IP fragmentation. **--done**

- SecurityModule (Identity): 
    A module that allows to sign using a private key. **--done**

- Channeler:
    A component used for the communication between neighbors over the Internet.
    Keeps communication between neighbors encrypted, and serves as a
    "firewall" between CSwitch and the Internet.

- Networker:
    The main communication router. Allows to exchange communication for
    credits at the neighbors layer. Relies on the Funder as a means of
    rebalancing credits between neighbors.

- Funder
    Allows to send funds between friends. Relies on the Networker
    as a means of communication.

- AppManager
    An interface between CSwitch, user applications and an IndexerClient.
    Allows the user to configure neighbors and friends, send messages or funds
    and view recent information about the running CSwitch engine.

- Database
    Used for persistency of Networker's configuration, and of Funder's current
    state, to make sure no funds are lost in case of a crash.


External to CSwitch:

- A basic Indexer Application. 
    This will be an application that queries nodes
    in the network periodically for their neighbors and friends, to create a
    reasonably updated and complete image of the network.

- Default IndexerClient implementation.
    An application that connects to configured indexers, and asks for routes
    when required.
