# Funder design
23.12.2017

Required prior reading: 

- 0_credit_clearing.mdown
- networker.mdown


## Introduction

TODO

## Persistent representation of a Funder Token Channel

A Funder Token Channel always keeps in long term memory the following:

- lastFriendMoveToken (incoming or outgoing)
- remoteMaxDebt [16 bytes]
- localMaxDebt [16 bytes]
- remotePendingDebt [16 bytes]
- localPendingDebt [16 bytes]
- balance [16 bytes]
- localPendingRequests (A list of requests)
- localState       (RequestsEnabled/RequestsDisabled)
- remoteState      (RequestsEnabled/RequestsDisabled)

The fields lastFriendMoveToken has a similar job to the lastNeighborMoveToken
field in the Networker persistent representation.

The fields remoteMaxDebt, localMaxDebt, remotePendingDebt, localPendingDebt,
balance, localPendingRequests and the relationbships between them are explained
in the Networker design document (networker.mdown).

localState determines whether we take new requests from the remote friend.
remoteState determines whether the remote friend takes new requests from us.


## Funder Token Channels

**FriendMoveToken**

- transactions
- oldToken              [32 bytes]
- randNonce             [32 bytes]


**FriendInconsistencyError**

- currentToken          [32 bytes]
- balanceForReset       [16 bytes]


## Token Channel inconsistency

Handled similarly to the Networker.


## Funder Token Channel Transaction types

The following transactions types are available for sending inside the
transactions field of a FriendMoveToken message:

- SetStateTran
- setRemoteMaxDebtTran
- FundsRandNonceTran
- RequestSendFundTran
- ResponseSendFundTran
- FailedSendFundTran
- ResetChannelTran


Compared with the Networker Token Channel, the transaction LoadFundsTran was
removed. The transaction SetState was added. RequestSendFunTran,
ResponseSendFundTran and FailedSendFundTran are the dual of their Networker's
counterparts. They are explained below.

**SetStateTran**

- newState: (RequestsEnabled / RequestsDisabled)


SetStateTran sets the current state for the sender of the transaction.
If the local state is RequestsDisabled, the remote side may not send
RequestSendFundTran transactions.  If the local state is RequestsEnabled, the
remote side may send RequestSendFunTran transactions.

The purpose of the SetStateTran transaction is to allow one party of a friends
token channel to have more control over the mutual credit balance. 

For example, consider a credit friendship between two nodes A and B.
If A wants to leave the friendship gracefully, he somehow needs to acheive a
zero balance in the mutual credit (Note that this is not always possible).
If B keeps opening new requests, it could be difficult for A to acheive neutral
balance. 

To gain more control over the balance of the channel, A will send a
DisableRequestTran transaction. This will stop B from sending new requests,
possibly allowing A to acheive zero credit balance with B, and then leaving
the friendship.

When a new Funder Token Channel is created, its state is RequestsDisabled by
default.

EncContent

- senderEphemeralPublicKey  [32 bytes]
- keyDerivationNonce        [32 bytes]
- destCommPublicKeyHash     [8 bytes]
- Signature{key=senderPublicKey}(
    senderEphemeralPublicKey ||
    keyDerivationNonce ||
    destCommPublicKeyHash)  [64 bytes]
- encryptedContent: Encrypt{key=derivedSymmetricKey, nonce=random}(
    recipientTimestamp, senderTimestamp, senderCommPublicKey, messageContent)


**RequestSendFundTran**

- requestId                     [16 bytes]
- nodeIdPath
- requestContent: EncContent
- destinationPayment            [16 bytes]
- mediatorPaymentProposal       [8 bytes]


Where messageContent inside requestContent is of the form:

- invoiceId [32 bytes]


TODO: Add explanation about rest of RequestSendFundTran fields


**ResponseSendFundTran**

- requestId
- responseContent: EncContent
- Signature{key=recipientKey}(
    "FUND_SUCCESS" ||
    requestId ||
    sha512/256(nodeIdPath) ||
    sha512/256(requestContent) ||
    destinationPayment ||
    mediatorPaymentProposal)

Where messageContent inside responseContent is of the form:

- receiptRandNonce [32 bytes]
- Signature{key=recipientKey}(
    "FUND_RECEIPT" ||
    receiptRandNonce ||
    invoiceId)


Using responseContent, a receipt could be constructed by the sender of
the RequestSendFundTran transaction, as follows:

Receipt

- invoiceId             [32 bytes]
- receiptRandNonce      [32 bytes]
- Signature{key=recipientKey}(
    "FUND_RECEIPT" ||
    receiptRandNonce ||
    invoiceId)


TODO: Add explanation about fields of ResponseSendFundTran


**FailedSendFundTran**

- requestId
- reportingNodePublicKey
- Signature{key=reportingNodePublicKey}(
    "FUND_FAILURE" ||
    requestId ||
    sha512/256(nodeIdPath) ||
    sha512/256(requestContent) ||
    destinationPayment ||
    mediatorPaymentProposal)


TODO: Add explanation about fields


## Interface with the Networker


TODO: 


## Funder configuration from the PluginManager

TODO
- How to remove a friend gracefully?


## Service provided by the Funder

TODO


## How to perform payments



TODO: Explain about random generation of invoiceId, and how to construct a
receipt.

